real_estate_chatbot/README.md, before:

# Real Estate Assistant Chatbot

## Overview
This multi-agent chatbot system is designed to help users with property issues and tenancy questions. The system incorporates image analysis and text-based responses to provide comprehensive real estate assistance.

## Features
- **Property Issue Detection Agent**: Analyzes uploaded images to identify property issues (mold, cracks, leaks, etc.) and provides troubleshooting suggestions
- **Tenancy FAQ Agent**: Answers questions about tenant rights, landlord responsibilities, and rental regulations with location-specific guidance
- **Smart Routing**: Automatically determines which agent should handle each query based on input type

## Technology Stack
- **Orchestration**: Langchain & LangGraph
- **LLMs**: Google Gemini (gemini-1.5-flash-latest, gemini-1.5-pro-latest)
- **Grounding**: Google Search API
- **UI**: Streamlit
- **Configuration**: Python with dotenv
- **Data Validation**: Pydantic

## Setup/Installation
1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key
   GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_google_cse_id
   ```

## Usage
1. Navigate to the project directory
2. Run the Streamlit app:
   ```
   streamlit run app.py
   ```
3. Access the web interface at http://localhost:8501
4. For property issues:
   - Upload an image of the property issue
   - Optionally include a description
5. For tenancy questions:
   - Simply type your question (no image needed)

## Configuration
Required environment variables:
- `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: API key for Google Gemini and Google Search
- `GOOGLE_CSE_ID`: Custom Search Engine ID for Google Search

Optional environment variables:
- `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2`: Enable LangSmith tracing
- `LANGCHAIN_ENDPOINT`: LangSmith endpoint URL
- `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY`: LangSmith API key
- `LANGCHAIN_PROJECT`: LangSmith project name

## Project Structure
- `.env`: Environment variables for API keys
- `config.py`: Configuration module
- `schemas.py`: Pydantic schemas for structured output
- `agents.py`: Implements Agent 1 and Agent 2 logic
- `graph.py`: LangGraph state definition and workflow
- `app.py`: Streamlit web application
- `requirements.txt`: Project dependencies

Commit message:

Refactor real estate chatbot to enhance functionality and user experience. Updated agent logic for property issue detection and tenancy FAQs, improved structured output, and added context handling. Enhanced UI with better styling and user guidance. Updated dependencies and added new schemas for tenancy responses.

real_estate_chatbot/README.md, after:

# Real Estate Assistant Chatbot for PropertyLoop

## Overview
This multi-agent chatbot system is designed to help users with property issues and tenancy questions. The system incorporates image analysis and text-based responses to provide comprehensive real estate assistance.

## Features
- **Property Issue Detection Agent**: Analyzes uploaded images to identify property issues (mold, cracks, leaks, etc.) and provides troubleshooting suggestions
- **Tenancy FAQ Agent**: Answers questions about tenant rights, landlord responsibilities, and rental regulations with location-specific guidance
- **Smart Routing**: Automatically determines which agent should handle each query based on input type
- **Enhanced Context**: Incorporates property details like type, age, and occupancy for better analysis
- **Structured Output**: Well-formatted responses with visual categorization of different information types
- **Modern UI**: User-friendly interface with clear visual distinction between different response types

## Technology Stack
- **Orchestration**: Langchain & LangGraph
- **LLMs**: Google Gemini (gemini-1.5-flash-latest, gemini-1.5-pro-latest)
- **Grounding**: Google Search API
- **UI**: Streamlit
- **Configuration**: Python with dotenv
- **Data Validation**: Pydantic

## Setup/Installation
1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key
   GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_google_cse_id
   ```

## Usage
1. Navigate to the project directory
2. Run the Streamlit app:
   ```
   streamlit run app.py
   ```
3. Access the web interface at http://localhost:8501
4. For property issues:
   - Upload an image of the property issue
   - Optionally include a description
   - Fill in additional context like property type and age in the sidebar
5. For tenancy questions:
   - Simply type your question (no image needed)
   - Provide location information for region-specific advice

## Configuration
Required environment variables:
- `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: API key for Google Gemini and Google Search
- `GOOGLE_CSE_ID`: Custom Search Engine ID for Google Search

Optional environment variables:
- `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2`: Enable LangSmith tracing
- `LANGCHAIN_ENDPOINT`: LangSmith endpoint URL
- `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY`: LangSmith API key
- `LANGCHAIN_PROJECT`: LangSmith project name

## Project Structure
- `.env`: Environment variables for API keys
- `config.py`: Configuration module
- `schemas.py`: Pydantic schemas for structured output
- `agents.py`: Implements Agent 1 and Agent 2 logic
- `graph.py`: LangGraph state definition and workflow
- `app.py`: Streamlit web application
- `requirements.txt`: Project dependencies

## Response Types

### Property Issue Reports
- **Issue Assessment**: Detailed description of problems identified in the image
- **Troubleshooting Suggestions**: Actionable advice for addressing issues
- **Professional Referrals**: Recommendations for appropriate specialists
- **Safety Warnings**: Urgent alerts for potential hazards

### Tenancy FAQ Responses
- **Main Answer**: Primary response to the tenancy question
- **Legal References**: Relevant laws, regulations, or legal principles
- **Regional Specifics**: Location-specific information when provided
- **Additional Resources**: Organizations or sources for further assistance
- **Legal Disclaimer**: Clear statement that information is not legal advice

## Attribution
Created by Harsh Dayal (harshdayal13@gmail.com) as part of a PropertyLoop assignment. 

© 2024 PropertyLoop Assistant powered by Langchain, LangGraph, and Google Gemini.
